# A Start Point for Design Research

### Keshav, S. (2013). How to Read a Paper. Martin & Hanington
Keshva tries to use the 'three-pass' approach helping students to read papers more efficiently. The first pass is to have a bird eye view of the paper, understanding its goal and range, then helping you find out whether read further or not. Additionally, from the view of an author, we also learn to make concise structure when writing papers, let reviewers quickly grasp the gist of the ideas. The second pass suggests us finding key words on the content while ignoring the proof, focusing on graphs and marking logic. The third pass is "virtually re-implement" the paper: "making the same assumptions as the authors, re-create the work". Try to challenge the statement, reform the conclusion by your words and "jot down ideas for future work". Next, it tells that how to do literature survey using these skills. Find "recent highly-cited" paper on Google Scholars, first pass for a sense of work, find survey paper, if no survey paper, go for a second pass to find "shared citations and repeated author names", then find where they are published recently. Find conferences in that field and keep eyes on their new publications.

### Grand, S., & Jonas, W. (Eds.). (2012). Mapping Design Research, Introduction & Chapter 1
This book raises the question of what is design research, shows us how we develop this concept and discusses what its future might be.  From the introduction, Simon Grand dates back to design research itself: "How can design establish its own genuine research paradigm...for dealing with purposeful change in complex, ill-defined, real-world situations?" With a brief summary of design research from different views, we are informed of the messy condition for design research theory, which is worth for us to unpack it bit by bit. First discussion is dealing with the relationship between design research and scientific research. Simon, Alexander and Cross view that design is apart from science and arts. Science is finding objective or universal knowledge of the world, while design is a time-limited conditioning for variations (12). However, from Weaver's "organized complexity" to Archer's "design research is systematic inquiry", we start to focus on the formation of design procedure, design research is to find discipline on how designers design. In 1960s, as a trend to scientize design, scholars try to discuss design and science in a semantic way-"scientific design, design science, science of design and design as a discipline ". However, Cross broadens the goal of design to people's intuitive process, a basic knowledge while unknown and hard to visualize, which might prove that design research could also be a science research. Afterwards, new concepts of design research emerge, focusing on the relationship between designers and design, which develops to research about/to/through design. Owen's design study model is a typical model of research about design, exploring various aspects of the subject from a system perspective as an outsider... Other concepts like design thinking, meta-theoretical hierarchy...
