# Phenomenological Practice

### Summary

The article from Manen builds a strong argument for why and what we can seeks from everyday life practicing. Firstly, the pathic understanding of the existing world sets up people’s pre-condition and constraints. However, the author points out that through practicing, it is possible for us to explain, interpret or understand the nature of the phenomena with its scope. And the terminology of nature is ontology-established and shaped understanding of what “is”. In our project of driving experience research, we do dairy study as an impersonal research. We try to use these dairy records to unpack drivers’ behaviors, thoughts and feelings through their driving journey. Inquiries included, why they decide to drive, how they sense their driving condition in road and how they feel after a day driving.

We extract some key words and insights from two subjects in a 4-day diary record. Then we compare the results to see differences of meanings of driving. Then we design more focusing interview questions based on their own situations. We repeat back to the respondent as a question of what we believe is, trying to encourage further explanations from them. Questions like, seems there are so many complaints on driving why you still decide to drive, what is the threshold of your decision and do you have any specific moment that you do enjoy driving. Those questions help us to deepen a more general understanding of what factors influence them most.

Finally, relating to Manzini’s idea of building a sustainable everyday practicing, we create a model of how people feel about driving. And, how it relates to their decision to buy a new car. What we learn from the interviews is that, people are pursuing new functionality when buying a new car and they hope their quality of life-driving experience, could be improved with a new and high-tech car. However, as Manzini points out that, the promise of individual freedom has not been kept. Human being always breaks down their previous promise and pursue the better. Product-based well-being on a worldwide scale is an intrinsically unsustainable pattern.

As for Rose, one of our interviewees, she recently bought a Tesla Model X. She hopes the self-drive technology could free her hands when she is tired of driving. What we can assume is that, the fresh feeling of this high-tech will gradually decrease by time and other hidden issues may emerge. But it may become difficult for Rose to buy a better car on market at that time. And for another interviewee Karry, who haven’t enjoyed driving any more, said “It could maybe be more fun if I had an Audi or a BMW”. After that, we come up with these questions to investigate as a further step- how can people find the balance between material and non-material satisfaction in terms of car driving experience, does driving itself still embody a nature of happiness and does the technology convenience of car driving take the happiness away?


#### Reading materials:
