# Grounded Theory

### Summary

Grounded theory is different from other kinds of qualitative analysis methods for its theory building. The process of constructing theory is also the process of grounded theory practice. The book – Constructing grounded theory, describes a historical development of grounded theory from its start. This method is formed in a systematic methodological way for researching how and when patients and their professionals knew and acknowledged that dying is occurred and developing theoretical analyses of the social organization and temporal order of dying. Glaser and Strauss, two founders of this theory, then summarized the components of grounded theory practice. Briefly, they are coding thematic categories by sorting data, comparing different categories, advancing theory by recollecting data within the categories, expanding categories by discovering variations, then sampling categories into a comprehensive theory construction. Kathy Charmaz, the author of this book, reintroduces this theory through how to collect data, how to code data, how to write memo, and how to sample themes then construct them into a theory. As we learn that, these four steps are interweaving together. It does not mean to stop after sampling your categories. You also need to recollect and code data and write memo again to deepen your categories.

In another reading, Qualitative Inquiry and Research Design, author John W. Creswell, lists out five different qualitative studies, including narrative research, phenomenological study, ethnography, grounded theory, and case study. Narrative research is focusing on the stories told by individuals. Phenomenology is discovering the essence of personal experience of a phenomenon. Ethnography seeks to understand shared patterns of behaviors, beliefs, and language of a group of people. Grounded theory is to construct a theoretical based study generated in data. Case study is to understand a specific case involving the study of an issue explored.

### Reflection for the Grounded Theory:

There are several important parts in Grounded Theory about how to sort out data. First is theoretical sampling, then discovering variation, and saturating theoretical categories. When it comes to theoretical sampling, we generate hypothesizes based on first round data collection. As Hood mentions, we are developing theory inductively, trying out hunches continuously. We test out our hypotheses by hunting next round data, comparing different thematical categories, and then sharpening them. In terms of discovering variation, variations may occur or become clear only after developing a larger category, which also means that early hints that discovered at the beginning of the research should not be abandoned. Discovering variations make your theory more comprehensive. Saturating theoretical categories helps us to lead to the close of theory building. From Glaser’s words, it said that saturation is the conceptualization of comparison of these incidents which yield different properties of pattern, until no new properties of the pattern emerge. We regard saturation is more like a method to evaluate the density and completeness of your theory.

#### Reading materials:
