**23/9/2018  
Houjiang Liu**

# Personal Dérive in Boston-Observing while Learning

In the first week when moved into Boston, I was trapped into a triangle area from Ruggles, Malden Sprague Street to Cambridge Holden Green. There are places where I study, live and my cousin live. As a Chinese student, I found that the first and second places are much easier to adapt, not only for the reason that there are places where I usually stay, but also the reason that there are more Chinese neighborhood living. Although I go to Holden Green for a supper each day, my comfortable zone is limited inside the apartment. When I took my niece to the community park, I behaved more carefully even than her.

New comers are prone to stay where they are familiar with. Comfortable areas for them are not only formed by apparent geographical boundaries, but also for socialble and functional situations where satisfy their emotion needs. During these couple days for my simple adaptation, I tend to reduce my route, not to explore new possibilities like meeting new friends or playing around. To my perspective, such experience can be refered to Debord's description of people's dérive area-"The objective passional terrain of the dérive must be deﬁned in accordance both with its own logic and with its relations with social morphology".(63)

I get up at eight o'clock in the morning, takes orange line for about 30 minutes to school, and come back late at nine. The farthest place of Boston I went is Hydepark. Although my daily activity space may exceed the Boston area, Boston’s psychological geographic boundaries are offset southward to me. Thinking retrospectively, my personal view of Boston's geograpic area was influenced largely by the spatiality of orange line. Therefore, due to unfamiliarity, people's movements may challenge the existence area of city.

The experience of Self-observation on street also inspires me with the understanding of dérive, especially on its overlapping aspects "to study a terrain or to emotionally disorient oneself".(Debord, 64) I recorded my first street experience of finding a restraurant near home. I feel contradictory when starting the way of trying to act like an ethnographer being opened to the environment(self-disorient) while keeping eyes on finding specific targets. In a street corner, a loud speech above the shop caught my attention. In order to figure out where it came from, I walked around the building and spent a few minutes looking for the loud-speaker upstair. However, I not only failed, but also lost the way to restraurant. After that, I tried to read names on board and randomly pick a restraurant. However, the name and buiding decoration of a restraurant confused my understanding of it until I saw the text "restraurant and pub" on the right corner of the signboard. Its dark theme decoration repelled my desire to have lunch here. In some cases, the pedestrians walking might be interuppted by environment triggers like sudden sound or unexpected view. These possibilities for city new comers are much higher than residents, which may serve as a discourse for Debord's idea of "behavioral disorientation".(65)


Debord, G. *The Situationist International Anthology*, translated by K. Knabb, Bureau of Public Secrets, 2006
